It becomes electrical.
Dr. Howard Gottlieb.
The archive, as you said, about 4,000 documents.
The entire collection is about 4,000 documents, and we've only shown several hundred, actually.
And this, of course, is one of Mr. Richards' rooms, isn't that right?
Look, he invented Henry VII.
Wow.
Henry IV.
Oh, Henry IV, yes.
This is the man who invented the silhouette.
Etienne de Silhouette.
That's his name?
Yes.
Monsieur Silhouette.
A-T-N-E-T-I-E-N-N-E-D-E-S-I-L-H-O-U-E-T-T-E 1709-1767.
Napoleon Bonaparte?
Yes.
It is the only known poster of Lincoln's Assassin.
The wanted poster.
That's it?
The only known?
The only known, yeah.
Really.
And Paul had this?
Yes.
Poster issued by the— There's no hours now.
This is not the project.
This is a gift.
This is a hundred—really?
Paul was rather extraordinary.
Really?
You?
I might ask you to tell me a little bit about Paul as a collector, too.
Paul did say he talked to me, by the way.
Sorry, I'm a New York fan.
That'll be interesting.
There's a success story for you.
There's the Texas story.
In one man, Paul's success is just as phenomenal as Texas was success.
How do you mean?
A man that started out without a penny.
Started out without a penny, is now the largest manuscript dealer and the largest manuscript collector in the country.
You know now.
He still collects for himself.
Incredible.
He just salts away for himself.
But is the idea, do you think, for him to send it here?
Not necessarily.
The Henry Wallace he sent to Iowa.
They've got a Henry Wallace room there because Wallace came from Iowa, you see.
He has done things for other institutions, but also he's totally collected.
He's gone into glass.
He's got the largest collection in the world of glass flasks, mostly 18th and 19th century.
He's now collecting Perrin busts, those little white busts of well-known figures.
He's got 4,000 or 5,000 of those.
He's the world's largest collector of Baden-Powell and Boy Scout material.
He's cornered the market and all of that.
These are personal collections.
I've been told that his Boy Scout collection, when it's
It's really going to be something.
Extraordinary, yeah.
And everybody would like to get it, too.
This is nice.
We had this opening last week, and Paul came down for the official opening, and
I was in Chicago for that.
Thank you for the invitation.
And it was quite a... Yes, I hope we sent you one.
I've asked them to keep you on our list, you know, because I thought some of these things might or might not interest you, Nick.
If they don't, just ignore it.
You know, you're always welcome to come to this stage.
That one particularly did.
And it was my... Unfortunately, I was in Chicago that week.
In St.
Louis.
Donuts take constant massaging, as you know, in order to keep them interested and keep...
keep their loyalty to the institution.
That is why we mount a show of this nature, just for that purpose.
From Henry VIII to Woodrow Wilson.
We attempted to take the two better names, you see, and that would attract public to go in and... What is the focus of such a collection?
Just significant manuscripts?
Collector items.
That's all.
High spots?
High spots, you know.
He's like Shady.
He's like all Robert Taylor was at Princeton, you know.
Only high spots.
That's all Paul is.
His personal collection is interested.
Whereas when it came to the Roosevelt or the Frost, he was interested in depth.
I mean, the Frost is the largest, most complete Frost collection in the world, as is the Theodore Roosevelt that we have that he gave us.
How do you feel when you see these things?
What kind of feelings do you have?
Possess it.
Really?
totally possesses.
I think that it's a fate that all curators have.
You never talk about, you say, my manuscripts.
These are my Dickens letters.
They're not the universities.
They're my Dickens letters, you know.
I think you'll find that at any institution, any curator begins to feel terribly possessive over something like that.
Well, you are a collector.
I think people should understand that you are.
You and your wife has come to my home sometime to see my personal collection.
I didn't know you collected personally.
Not manuscripts.
I collect
Presentation copies, books that one author give another author.
Those are very interesting.
And I also collect modern art.
I have a very large collection of art.
Presentation and also association, I would say.
Yes, yeah.
Because that's part of the... Yeah.
This is the manuscript of John's straight shooting.
Oh, really?
I thought I'd give him a little plug.
Why not?
He types?
He long hands and then corrects the top script.
It's gone into paperback now.
It did pretty well and qualified.
Very well.
We have a lot of Lawrence manuscripts.
I find that Lawrence, we cannot keep on the shelves in the stack.
Students read Lawrence.
They read Lawrence now the way they used to read Hemingway.
Now they don't read Hemingway, they read Lawrence.
Students, though.
We're talking to Dr. Gottlieb at Boston University.
Where were we?
Let's talk about a very easy thing.
You were mentioning that you started a book collecting competition here.
Yeah.
You might tell me a little bit about that and why you started it.
It's now 20 years old at this institution.
I started it about seven years after I'd been here based on the one that I had
helped run during my Yale period and we find that it is a wonderful way for us to reach out and make collectors or attempt to make collectors out of our student body because I tell the students when I proselytize or get them to enter the contest you can play tennis up to a certain age and football and any physical sport but when you are beyond that stage
You must have something you can do for the rest of your life and book collecting.
Being a collector is the best way to do it.
And interestingly enough, we've found over the years that some of these collections are wonderful.
I'm amazed at the subjects.
Oh, a few years ago we had a boy who collected novels in which the bugle figured.
It was interesting.
Did you ask him?
It was a collection of some 500 books, but a brilliant collection that he had put together that in some way the bugle...
Oh, you know.
And then we've had an extraordinary subject.
One year we had a young man who collected portmanteaux.
Now, I mean, those are extraordinarily rare.
These were the catalogs that itinerant salesmen carried in the 19th century from farmhouse to farmhouse, selling their wares.
And they were beautifully done, beautifully put together, beautifully illustrated, but very rare.
And this was an extraordinary collection of portmanteaux that this young man had.
One year ago presented a book collection she put together of watch repair manuals, some from the 18th century right up to the present time, because she just happened to be interested.
So it can be an author collection or it can be a subject collection, as long as they show sense and a theme.
And then what we ask them to do is write an essay on how they came to acquire their book,
and why they are collecting in that field.
And that's what the judges, we appoint three judges, usually one book dealer, usually one member of the faculty, and usually a member of the friends of the library.
And they pick a window.
We give $800 for the first prize, and $600 for the second, $400 for the third, and so it's worthwhile to enter.
And it's open to undergraduates only?
No, to anyone in the university.
Really?
I'm a great believer in that, yes.
Not just undergraduates?
Not just undergraduates.
What's your thinking on that?
Because I feel that graduate students and students in our professional schools who devoted a certain number of years to collecting should be rewarded for their collecting activities as well.
We reserve, we want to make sure that
A first-year undergraduate always gets a prize.
So at least one of the prizes is reserved for undergraduate.
That's what they do at Chicago.
They give one to a senior and one to a freshman or a sophomore.
So that's, you know... And each year the number who enter varies.
Some year we have 40, some year we have 30, some year we have 50, you know.
You had mentioned earlier during lunch that the first year a young man
collected Joyce, and they said his collection was probably better than the one we had in the library.
I would have been proud to have it here.
And he may have not have spent more than $50 on putting that together.
But he picked up things like poems penny each for 25 cents from a dealer who didn't know what he had, you see.
And that's how.
He was really a collector.
He even had two ticket stubs from a Joyce performance he had attended.
He had a real collector's instinct.
Do you do any follow-up on these students?
The Book of the Month Club, in conjunction with Bennett Cerf, used to award a national prize for the winners of university prizes, and they called it the Amy Loveman Book Award, awarded jointly by Book of the Month Club and Random House.
Now, that went on for a number of years, and their first prize was $1,000, so that was something.
We used to enter our winners in that national contest.
Then, for some reason,
That contest fell apart.
I'm going to call the Book of the Month Club.
I wonder what happened to that.
But I mean, follow up with respect to the fact that, you know, the kid graduates from college and goes out.
One assumes the individual continues to collect.
It might be worth your while to keep tabs on the individual.
Become James Billings, one of the big book dealers in New York who won the contest here when he was a student.
Now he's an important rare book dealer.
Bill Reese won the one at Yale.
At Yale.
And Bill is the big man in Western Americana, yes.
And Graham Arata won.
That's the other side of the two individuals.
There's a fellow who just founded one at the University of Chicago, Brooker, who won the Yale Award.
He's quite a collector of 16th century stuff.
You said downstairs, I said, how do you feel when you're walking among the Richards?
And you said, possessive.
He sent a request.
I think so.
You do.
At least, maybe not all curators, but I put so much of my life, my time and energy and years, having started a collection from scratch here, it's a little different perhaps than from at other places, when it inherited a collection, you see, and added to it.
This was created, in a sense, during my watch, during the time that I have been here, so I feel it's all mine.
You started about 63, 64?
63.
Okay.
That was about the time, maybe five years after Texas started putting together a 20th century kind of archive.
Tell me a little bit about why you decided a 20th century collection was important, why that was something that you thought you could do here.
Because when I was wooed away to come here,
to create a collection.
I knew that the competition would be with sister institutions across the river and elsewhere.
We'd been collecting for hundreds of years.
How could Boston University, with few funds, which they had, no funds for me to work with, make a mark as a collecting agency or as a research center, unless we collected in some field where we would be rendering a service that no other agency was rendering.
And there really was no college, no university, no repository
who said, this is my territory, contemporary papers, the 20th century, in all fields.
I did not limit us to literature alone, but to the other cultural arts, to politics, to music, to drama.
to civil rights.
Journalism.
I see a picture of Dan Rather.
Those are all his Emmys.
Those are Dan's Emmys right there.
And Dan Rather is a born collector.
Dan is a born collector.
Every other week I get a parcel from him of materials that he sends because he is a born collector.
How did you get Dan Rather, for instance?
He's from Texas.
He works in New York.
How is it he picks?
I don't know.
Maybe my pursuit
Maybe my courtship was a little more ardent than the Library of Congress, who wanted him badly, or some other institutions.
I don't know.
People ask me that all the time.
How did you get so-and-so?
I think if there's any answer to that or to what I do, it's only one thing, and that is persistence.
Well, you used the word courtship.
Tell me, why don't you expand a little bit on that?
It is a courtship.
It's wooing.
It's massaging.
It's caring for.
It's administering.
It's a long period of ambitious desire, in a sense.
I think that it's easy if someone says no to say, yes, that is finished.
But if someone says no to me and they say, I have no papers.
I've destroyed all my diaries.
I've destroyed all my letters.
My first reaction is one of disbelief, constantly.
People do not destroy things so cavalierly.
I know that.
I haven't been an archivist for 30 years not to know that, you see.
At any rate.
So what's the next step if somebody says they've destroyed it?
The next step is to make sure that that individual knows that I'm waiting in the wings.
And you care.
And that I am constantly interested.
And to...
Pursue it.
We recently had an exercise.
Maybe this is telling something out of school, but this past summer we took a period of time here for me to be in touch with everyone who has refused me in the last 20 years, if they are still alive.
And that was done this summer.
I put myself in touch with some 3,000 or 4,000 people.
And just to see, merely just to see what would happen.
And we got some very good collections after all this time.
Number one, they were amazed that one remembered that one had been in touch again after all this time.
And some had changed their minds.
Some let me know that they had decided on another repository, another institution.
And fine, as long as the papers were safe.
I'm the sort of archivist who doesn't necessarily feel it's got to be here, but I do feel it's got to be someplace being cared for.
I worry about collections in private hands.
I think they should be someplace, if not here, at least in another repository.
Who do you think would be worthwhile my talking to in that regard?
Not necessarily that regard, but somebody who could speak to, who might be interested in talking about how they decided to place a collection with you after maybe
deciding not to put it anywhere.
If you think of anybody, it might be worth my while.
Think about that.
Yeah.
Am I talking to someone?
What made you decide?
Actually, someone who just came to mind, who I find a very interesting writer.
Some people call him a regional writer.
I think he is more national.
That is Billy C. Clark from Tennessee.
Old Yeller and many of his other books he writes about.
The country, dogs, animals.
He's a very fine writer.
Now, he has came to us this past summer after many, many, many years of wooing.
If you can... Sure.
You were wooed here.
You used the word wooed.
Yeah.
You were at Yale, I guess, at that time.
And they said...
Dr. Gottlieb, please come to Boston University, and your mandate is to build a great collection.
That's right.
But was there also a codicil to that, that we don't have much money?
I mean, the point is, if you... It wasn't put to me in exactly those terms, but it was a fact that I discovered very rapidly.
I mean, one of the inducements would have to be that you, well, we'll give you the need, you know, certainly you'll have the needs to do.
Or was it understood that you were really going to exploit everything that you never learned?
Yeah.
I think the greatest inducement was the fact that it could be a totally personalized collection, and that if you stop that way, it has to be.
See, I guess the reason I put it in context with Texas is because you both started out about the same time.
They started out a few years ahead of you.
But what they always had was money.
Yeah.
I mean, why would Alfred A., I'm not asking, but why would Alfred A. come up, send his stuff to Texas?
You know, I mean, but it's there.
And he didn't need money, but... And he didn't need money, but... Oh, but Swanson, after my years of wooing of Miss Swanson.
I tell you that story.
Oh, you know, after all those cranberries and dried dates and figs, weekend after weekend, you know.
She was rich.
I've never seen such an establishment.
That green marble palace on Fifth Avenue was incredible.
And yet they offered her one thing I couldn't do, and that was a lifetime job.
for her assistant or secretary, and money, a million dollars in cash.
They claim it wasn't that much, but that's... I'll go off just for a second.
Let's get back to business then.
I guess, again, talking about the mandate to build a great collection but really not having the money to do it, and yet you did it.
Maybe you can talk a little bit about that.
I'd much rather have been the other way.
I would have loved to have gone to the auction houses.
I would have loved to have hired Lou Feldman.
I would have loved to have hired, you know, Kuschenbaum or Fleming or any of them to have worked for us to find us things.
But they, during this period, always sent their catalogs hoping that we would buy something, but we could not afford to buy from them.
or to buy anything at auction, except on those occasions when I went to a member of the Friends of the Library and said, I know such and such a book.
Is it such and such a house?
Buy it for us.
I'll go to the auction and bid.
And they did.
This organization, which I created in 63, 64, the Friends of the Library, is now very strong and very active and very loyal.
But even in the early years, they started buying
because they wanted to be in on the beginning to see if we really could create an important collection here, which we have done.
But it's not easy to do it that way.
It is extremely hard, because you have to collect people.
You have to collect people with money.
You have to collect collectors.
And that is not easy.
It's much easier to go into a shop and buy something or go to an auction house and buy a group of papers.
But to get it this way is doubly hard.
Tell me about collecting people.
Now, Betty Davis has been in the news quite a bit lately, and she's certainly...
That's an extraordinary collection.
It's your privilege to be custodian out here at Boston University.
Tell me a little bit about how she decided to give your... It took her ten years to decide.
It took ten years of abject begging to get her to decide because she knew exactly what her worth was.
She knew she was not only turning over her own archive, her own collection, her book collection, but she was turning over her reputation, her name as well.
Because if you place your papers in a repository, you are saying, that is my institution.
My reputation, in a sense, is bound up with that of the institution.
And that is one of the reasons why my task became so much easier when Silber came here to become president, because he started doing things with the university that were tremendously different than what had happened here before.
He took the university, shook it, turned its own head, set it on a different path.
And so when I would go to London, I didn't have to explain that we weren't small and Jesuit and in Chester Hill, but that we were large and architectarian and in Boston.
People knew who we were for the first time, you see.
And this helped along the way.
But between 63 and 71, when John came here, I had to fight this lonely battle to a great extent, traveling and telling people where we were, who we were, and what we were trying to do.
But once he became president,
I didn't have to do so much of that, because he began hitting the newspapers.
He began making waves, you see, and it's all helped.
And he would travel with me on occasion.
We'd go out to Hollywood.
George Sidney would give a dinner for him out in Hollywood, you know, and it's all worked out very well.
Did he give you a mandate when he came in?
I must say, he's an extraordinary man, because he came from a tradition of collecting at Texas, and he saw what Ransom had done there.
So he didn't come in and say, I wonder what's going on with Gottlieb and what he's trying to do, because he knew that I, in my own way, was trying to do what Ransom had done at Texas, you see, build a large research center, except Ransom had a great deal of help in the way of money, and I didn't have that help.
But I must say, he has been a good right arm.
It's been extraordinary because he is wonderful with the people that I'm dealing with,
They enjoy meeting and talking with him, and he's been extraordinarily helpful right along the way.
Do you want to use another metaphor on that, honestly, another right arm?
I'm not, I mean, no, no, I'm being serious.
I mean, that doesn't matter.
He's been my greatest aid, really.
Your greatest ally or whatever.
Yes.
Yeah.
And a great ally.
I just don't want anybody to... Oh, no, yes.
I mean, I'm not even conscious of that because it never occurs.
You get so used to something you don't even know...
And I'm always amazed when people even mention it to me.
No, I'm a cynic who writes things, and I see things as they appear in print.
You know what I'm saying?
Yes.
Oh, absolutely.
I agree.
I agree with you 100%.
But he gave you... No, because he's eclectic, he's eclectic in his own reading interest, and in his own knowledge of authors.
He constantly amazes me as to how much he knows about books and authors.
How important is a research facility to a university?
Terribly important.
How do you attract good faculty?
How do you attract good students?
How do you attract external scholars to come here and work and lend their name to the university?
The books and papers are what bring people here, quite frankly.
And being in Boston helps.
You must have a lot of complementary kinds of collections.
You must have things that the public library has that help a scholar... Yes, but only in books, not in papers.
There's been a sort of unspoken rule.
Boston Public takes care of the local city politicians whose papers are in the Boston Public and Boston City-orientated materials.
They do not collect in the area that we are collecting.
Harvard, by...
Its tradition collects primarily 18th and 19th century material, maybe a bit of 20th now.
But really, we have not trod on each other's toes to a great extent.
Though I do hear cries of anguish, oh, from other institutions periodically.
Kennedy Library saying, why did the John McCormick papers go there?
They should have come to us.
Or Harvard saying, why has the Benchley papers gone to you?
He was a Harvard man.
Could have gone to Harvard had they asked for them.
I'm sure.
There's a sense of timing.
A sense of timing.
Nuance.
I think you have to be alert to the nuances, don't you?
Yes, yes, yes.
And a sense of overwhelming ambition, really.
And that's what counts.
Now, I read in the New York Times a couple weeks ago that Emory University in Atlanta has come up with hundreds of millions of dollars of Coca-Cola money.
One hundred and nine million.
And they're stealing faculty from Johns Hopkins.
I wonder, would a concomitant thrust also be in the building of a wreath?
We have not heard that.
They have not entered the auction market.
They have not entered the antiquarian market.
One knows immediately, once you have an element of that nature,
Nothing of that has occurred.
There's no reason why they could.
But my question is, and we're just using that as an example, assuming they wish to be a great university, something more than a fine university in Georgia, in your view, do they have to build a really fine research collection in something?
Is it incumbent upon them to do that?
They do.
The library is the heart of any university.
And we're not talking about just printed books.
No.
The library is the heart of any university.
It is the one thing that makes the corpus of that university beat.
It is the one facility that everyone on that campus uses.
And consequently, that's what makes you a great university.
And why is Harvard so proud of its library?
Why is Yale so proud of its library?
These are institutions which those universities have nurtured over the years and which attracts people from all over the world to use those facilities.
Would we get five or six thousand scholars from around the world coming to us now if we did not have something they could not find anywhere else?
The only reason that would bring them here.
There's something we mentioned earlier that I want to go back to.
Yeah, living.
The decision to collect the artifacts of the living.
It was kind of a revolutionary...
decision to make, wasn't it?
I mean, that wasn't really done.
Yeah, because would you take a chance of talking to the person next to you and saying, I want to collect you, if you have no assurance that person's going to end up being well-known or famous or being collectible, if you can use that term?
And I'm sure if you walked outside this building and stopped the first person on the street you met, you would find that that person has saved papers, has saved letters from his mother and father or from her aunt or her uncle or her report cards or her passports or her driver's licenses.
But do you want to save them?
That prison may not turn out to be terribly important.
And that's the tragedy of life, you know, because if we had that kind of material from someone from the 16th or 17th century, that would be historic and very interesting.
But modern technology, you see, has caught up with collecting activity.
We know about what is going on now through other means.
There's no reason to save it from the actual flagstones of our age, because we can save it in
much more manageable form to a great extent.
Nicholas Barker, I said, you know, we discussed one of the purported pitfalls of collecting people who are unknown and who may remain unknown.
He said, you know, we're just discovering poets now from the 16th century here in the British Library.
You know, they've never been, but we're getting to them, and we're discovering that they're important, and we're delighted that we have their works here.
So who's to say?
But yet, at the end of the 19th century, they wouldn't collect Alfred Lord Tennyson, because they were afraid he wasn't well-known, and he might not amount to anything, you see.
Well, Oxford, Julian Roberts, we were talking about the Don Quixote, which sold for $1.65 million from the garden sale.
And he said, well, you know, we bought ours when it was issued.
Cute.
Look, it was such a marvelous, oh, I love that.
It was such a wonderful ride.
So we had an agent in Spain, and we bought it when it was issued.
Yes.
Oh, I must use that sometimes.
Please, please do.
And then later, he said, however, having said that, he said, we never bought Jane Austen's.
We had to go out and buy Jane Austen's books from dealers.
I'm trying to get a... We never collected her.
Novelists were not collected.
I know, that's true.
I bought Emma last year at an outrageous price.
I'm trying to get Pride and Prejudice.
You know what Pride and Prejudice is?
Eight, nine thousand in first edition.
It's incredible for a novel, you know.
It is.
A printed book?
A printed book.
Tied in Princeton.
Eight or nine thousand.
It's incredible.
Are you willing to pay that much?
I have a donor who is.
Oh, that's right.
If we can find a good copy.
But it has to be a good copy.
Now, is the donor a collector as well?
No.
A donor is a lady who is interested in Jane Austen, a member of the Friends of the Library, but will only buy Austen for me.
That's wonderful.
She won't buy anything else if I ask them.
That encourages you to find Austin, then?
Yes, it does.
It encourages you to build a collection in Austin.
That's true.
Tell me, yes, this is very important.
Can you give me some idea of the kind of debt an institution such as Boston University owes to private collectors, the passion of private collectors, how that feeds into the building of collections at an institution?
Oh, it does.
It does.
I have another donor who is interested in private press books.
And bit by bit, she has been completing our holdings of the Nonesuch Press, the Allen Press, or the major private presses.
But it's a passion.
She will call every week and she'll say, has anything appeared in the catalogs this week from Nonesuch?
Because we only lack two, and we'll be totally complete.
She knows that?
She knows that.
Does she look on it, do you think, as her collection, please?
Yes, indeed.
It bears her name.
So what is it, then?
Can you tell me?
Yes.
The idea that I have set myself a parameter, and I have completed the task that I said I would.
In other words, this is something she wished to do.
Can I use her name?
Now she's been making sounds to me that she wishes to do the same thing for us on Max Baerbaum.
We have a nice Max Beerbum, but it's not complete by any means, but she now wants us to go into manuscripts as well as printed materials, and she is willing to subsidize that.
If it's a collection that bears her name, is there somebody you can tell me who she is, or would you rather not?
It's Sylvia Burek.
You've met her.
I've met her here.
She's a lovely woman.
A woman of great means, great intelligence, great warmth and heart, who has been
a wonderful support to me in my activities.
Does she collect herself?
No.
But she collects.
You're kind of a story for her.
Yes.
Isn't that interesting?
I have Sylvia's card.
Do you mind if I call her?
Not at all.
To talk about this?
She's very modest, you know, and she may hem in horror and say, oh, I'm not doing anything and all this and that.
She's one of my main props.
Isn't that wonderful?
We mentioned Betty Davis.
Can you name another really
And you said it took eight years of begging, however many years that was.
Can you give me another example of a famous collection that took that kind of gentle and not-so-gentle persuasion to wrest from the individual?
I'm looking for examples that might... I'm trying to... Oh, I could tell you many that got away after all the begging, but... Well, probably a couple.
We know Swanson, of course.
Yeah.
the second one i'm thinking of um hasn't been designated at another institution so i'd rather not say that i don't want to give that person any ideas of uh he hasn't decided where to place his collection yet he's told me it will not come to us it won't come to us i can see his point he has put together a fantastic archive and library relating to russia and china because that's where he spent most of his years of
active reporting from both those areas.
And he felt that this institution does not specialize in those two areas of study, and he would perhaps prefer to be in one of the other.
It's important for you to follow the curriculum then, isn't it?
Yes, which we do.
You said that to me before.
Yes, yes.
And I do not necessarily find that dictum elsewhere.
I ask, you know, at the University of Chicago, they'll take a good collection if it's a good collection.
Some people would take anything.
Some people would take divided collections, which I would never do.
If a north calls me and says, you are interested in my papers, I say yes, yes.
Well, I have everything from 1960 up to the present, but everything from 1930 to 1960 is in Syracuse.
I'd say, well, give the rest to Syracuse.
It should not be divided.
It's unfair to you, it's unfair to that.
Yes, but some institutions will take anything.
just for the sake of possession.
Somebody told me that Syracuse is an interesting story of a mandate to collect that kind of went sour.
Yeah, I think they're out of the collecting business now, as far as I know.
What happened?
Did there some bad decisions, you think?
I think bad decisions, lack of support from the administration, and an attempt to divest themselves, I think, of some of their collections.
I don't know.
Really?
You mean to sell them?
I have no idea.
I don't know.
What would be a fruitful area for me to explore in that?
I think dealers like Rendell could tell you about Syracuse, perhaps.
I've heard about that out in Chicago.
Or their previous curator, who has now gone on to become head of the Beche collection in Philadelphia.
Howard Applegate, used to be head of the American Society of Archivists,
And he's now director of the Beche Collection in Philadelphia.
He used to be the curator in Syracuse.
What is the Beche Collection?
I think it's business papers, primarily.
At the university, probably, right?
At U-Pen, maybe?
No?
No.
It's independent.
Oh.
Okay.
Now, let me know when I've overextended my welcome, by the way.
Another ten minutes?
Okay.
Sure.
Because I know you're a busy man.
We can always get together again at home.
I would hope so.
Yeah.
Well, oh, you were going to tell me how to get in touch with a few people.
Herman Liebert I can get.
He's in New Haven.
Yeah, University.
Do you have the Golia Club list, membership list?
No.
I can give you the address from that.
I love that.
They're really well known for our manuscript collection here.
Are they housed in the same areas?
Book Vault is to your left.
That's where Kathy will take you through.
It's not housed in the same area.
Could I just kind of see where the manuscripts are?
Or would you rather we do that in a different... Certainly.
Certainly.
I'll have Kathy do that as well.
Let's see.
Liebert.
No, I didn't even think of that.
I have gone through everything.
One of the big kicks for me is to go into a train station.
282 York Street, Suite 4.
That's his office.
New Haven, Connecticut, 06511.
Good.
This is a later edition, unless his address has changed.
Tell me again, why do you use it?
Why is it significant for you?
Because I've clung and I've hoped.
Okay, clung and hope from 20.
Cling and hope.
Cling, right?
Yeah, two cling and two hope.
Gotcha.